README.Md, before:

# 📅 Dinaank: Where Dates Dance in JavaScript/Typescript or maybe in your mind

Imagine a world where selecting dates isn't a chore, but a delightful dance of digits. Welcome to Dinaank, the featherweight champion of date pickers! Weighing in at a mere 4.9kb gzipped, this nimble library pirouettes through your code with zero dependencies.

## 🎭 A Calendar's Soliloquy

Dinaank doesn't just appear; it performs. With a flourish, a calendar materializes before your eyes, complete with time selection capabilities. You, the director, simply point to a date and time, and the show concludes. Bravo! 👏

<div style="display: flex; justify-content: space-around;">
  <img src="https://raw.githubusercontent.com/iamharshdev/dinaank/master/screenshots/Screenshot_4.png" width="30%">
  <img src="https://raw.githubusercontent.com/iamharshdev/dinaank/master/screenshots/Screenshot_5.png" width="30%">
  <img src="https://raw.githubusercontent.com/iamharshdev/dinaank/master/screenshots/Screenshot_6.png" width="30%">
</div>

## 🎭 The Grand Entrance

### 🎟️ Via the Royal Decree (Manual Installation)

Summon Dinaank with a mere whisper in your HTML's head:

```html
<link rel="stylesheet" href="https://unpkg.com/dinaank/dist/dinaank.css" />
<script src="https://unpkg.com/dinaank"></script>
```

### 🧙‍♂️ Through Mystical Incantations (npm/yarn)

```sh
npm install dinaank  # The npm spell
yarn add dinaank     # The yarn enchantment
```

## 🎨 Painting with Time

Dinaank is your canvas, and dates are your palette. Let's create a masterpiece:

```js
// Basic Date Selector
const simplePicker = new Dinaank({
  el: '#date-selector',
  onChange: (selectedDate) => {
    console.log(`A moment in time was captured: ${selectedDate}`);
  },
  theme: 'dark',  // For those who paint with starlight
  colors: {
    hover: 'rgb(0, 0, 0)',
    active: '#000',
    range: 'rgba(91,91,91,0.13)',
    rangeColor: '#000',
  }
});

// Date Range Selector
const rangePicker = new Dinaank({
  el: '#date-range-selector',
  canSelectRange: true,
  onChange: (selectedDate, rangeSelected) => {
    console.log(`Range selected: ${rangeSelected.start} to ${rangeSelected.end}`);
  }
});

// Date & Time Selector
const dateTimePicker = new Dinaank({
  el: '#date-time-selector',
  enableTimeSelection: true,
  timeFormat: '12h', // or '24h'
  defaultTime: {
    hours: 12,
    minutes: 30,
    seconds: 0
  },
  onChange: (selectedDate, rangeSelected, selectedTime) => {
    console.log('Selected DateTime:', selectedDate);
    console.log('Selected Time:', selectedTime);
  }
});
```

## 🌈 A Spectrum of Possibilities

Dinaank isn't just a date picker; it's a time traveler's toolkit:

- **🎨 Themes**: Light for sun-chasers, dark for night owls
- **📅 Custom Ranges**: Set the boundaries of your temporal playground
- **🕒 Time Selection**: Choose your moment down to the second
- **🔒 Min/Max Dates**: Create a safe haven in the timestream
- **↔️ Date Ranges**: For those who think in spans, not points
- **⏰ Time Formats**: 12-hour or 24-hour, you decide
- **🎯 Default Values**: Start with your preferred time of day

## 🎭 Configuration Options

```typescript
interface DateSelectorOptions {
  el: string;                    // Target element selector (required) (eg. "#date-selector", ".canvas_of_time", etc.)
  canSelectRange?: boolean;      // Enable range selection
  closeOnSelect?: boolean;       // Close picker after selection
  theme?: 'light' | 'dark';      // Color theme
  colors?: {                     // Custom colors
    hover?: string;
    active?: string;
    range?: string;
    rangeColor?: string;
  }; // eg. { hover: 'rgb(0, 0, 0)', active: '#000', range: 'rgba(91,91,91,0.13)', rangeColor: '#000' }
  enableTimeSelection?: boolean; // Enable time picker (eg. true)
  timeFormat?: '12h' | '24h';   // Time format (eg. '12h' or '24h')
  defaultTime?: {               // Default time values
    hours?: number; // eg. 12
    minutes?: number; // eg. 30
    seconds?: number; // eg. 0
  };
  minDate?: Date;               // Minimum selectable date (eg. new Date())
  maxDate?: Date;               // Maximum selectable date (eg. new Date())
  currentDate?: Date;           // Initial selected date (eg. new Date())
  onChange?: (                  // Selection callback
    selectedDate: Date,
    rangeSelected: { start: Date | null, end: Date | null },
    selectedTime?: { hours: number, minutes: number, seconds: number }
  ) => void; // eg. (selectedDate: Date, rangeSelected: { start: Date | null, end: Date | null }, selectedTime: { hours: number, minutes: number, seconds: number }) => void,
  weekdays?: string[]; // eg. ["Su", "Mo", "Tu", "We", "Th", "Fr", "Sa"]
  months?: string[]; // eg. ["January", "February", "March", "April", "May", "June", "July", "August", "September", "October", "November", "December"]
}
```

## 🎮 Public Methods

Dinaank provides several public methods to control and interact with the date picker programmatically:

### Date & Time Control

```typescript
// Set minimum and maximum selectable dates
datePicker.setMinMaxDate(minDate: Date, maxDate: Date): void;

// Set time values manually
datePicker.setTime(hours: number, minutes: number, seconds: number = 0): void;

// Get the complete selected date and time
datePicker.getDateTime(): Date;

// Change the theme dynamically
datePicker.setTheme(theme: "dark" | "light"): void;

// Clean up resources when no longer needed
datePicker.destroy(): void;
```

### Method Details

#### `setMinMaxDate(minDate: Date, maxDate: Date)`
Sets the minimum and maximum selectable dates in the calendar.
```javascript
// Example: Limit selection to the current month
const now = new Date();
const firstDay = new Date(now.getFullYear(), now.getMonth(), 1);
const lastDay = new Date(now.getFullYear(), now.getMonth() + 1, 0);
datePicker.setMinMaxDate(firstDay, lastDay);
```

#### `setTime(hours: number, minutes: number, seconds: number = 0)`
Programmatically set the time portion of the selected date.
```javascript
// Example: Set time to 2:30 PM
datePicker.setTime(14, 30, 0);
```

#### `getDateTime()`
Returns the complete Date object with both date and time components.
```javascript
// Example: Get the full selected date and time
const selectedDateTime = datePicker.getDateTime();
console.log(selectedDateTime.toLocaleString());
```

#### `setTheme(theme: "dark" | "light")`
Dynamically switch between dark and light themes.
```javascript
// Example: Switch to dark theme
datePicker.setTheme("dark");
```

#### `destroy()`
Clean up the date picker and remove event listeners.
```javascript
// Example: Remove the date picker when no longer needed
datePicker.destroy();
```

## 🎭 The Final Act

Dinaank is more than code; it's poetry in motion, a ballet of bytes. It turns the mundane act of choosing a date and time into a celebration of possibility.

So go forth, temporal artist! Paint your web pages with the brushstrokes of time itself. Let Dinaank be your muse, your stage, and your standing ovation.

---

<sub>Crafted with ❤️ and a sprinkle of stardust by Harsh Vardhan Goswami. Under the benevolent gaze of the MIT License.</sub>

Commit message:

📄 Add MIT License and update package metadata
- Added MIT License file with copyright information
- Updated package.json with author and license details
- Added license section to README.md

README.Md, after:

# 📅 Dinaank: Where Dates Dance in JavaScript/Typescript or maybe in your mind

Imagine a world where selecting dates isn't a chore, but a delightful dance of digits. Welcome to Dinaank, the featherweight champion of date pickers! Weighing in at a mere 4.9kb gzipped, this nimble library pirouettes through your code with zero dependencies.

## 🎭 A Calendar's Soliloquy

Dinaank doesn't just appear; it performs. With a flourish, a calendar materializes before your eyes, complete with time selection capabilities. You, the director, simply point to a date and time, and the show concludes. Bravo! 👏

<div style="display: flex; justify-content: space-around;">
  <img src="https://raw.githubusercontent.com/iamharshdev/dinaank/master/screenshots/Screenshot_4.png" width="30%">
  <img src="https://raw.githubusercontent.com/iamharshdev/dinaank/master/screenshots/Screenshot_5.png" width="30%">
  <img src="https://raw.githubusercontent.com/iamharshdev/dinaank/master/screenshots/Screenshot_6.png" width="30%">
</div>

## 🎭 The Grand Entrance

### 🎟️ Via the Royal Decree (Manual Installation)

Summon Dinaank with a mere whisper in your HTML's head:

```html
<link rel="stylesheet" href="https://unpkg.com/dinaank/dist/dinaank.css" />
<script src="https://unpkg.com/dinaank"></script>
```

### 🧙‍♂️ Through Mystical Incantations (npm/yarn)

```sh
npm install dinaank  # The npm spell
yarn add dinaank     # The yarn enchantment
```

## 🎨 Painting with Time

Dinaank is your canvas, and dates are your palette. Let's create a masterpiece:

```js
// Basic Date Selector
const simplePicker = new Dinaank({
  el: '#date-selector',
  onChange: (selectedDate) => {
    console.log(`A moment in time was captured: ${selectedDate}`);
  },
  theme: 'dark',  // For those who paint with starlight
  colors: {
    hover: 'rgb(0, 0, 0)',
    active: '#000',
    range: 'rgba(91,91,91,0.13)',
    rangeColor: '#000',
  }
});

// Date Range Selector
const rangePicker = new Dinaank({
  el: '#date-range-selector',
  canSelectRange: true,
  onChange: (selectedDate, rangeSelected) => {
    console.log(`Range selected: ${rangeSelected.start} to ${rangeSelected.end}`);
  }
});

// Date & Time Selector
const dateTimePicker = new Dinaank({
  el: '#date-time-selector',
  enableTimeSelection: true,
  timeFormat: '12h', // or '24h'
  defaultTime: {
    hours: 12,
    minutes: 30,
    seconds: 0
  },
  onChange: (selectedDate, rangeSelected, selectedTime) => {
    console.log('Selected DateTime:', selectedDate);
    console.log('Selected Time:', selectedTime);
  }
});
```

## 🌈 A Spectrum of Possibilities

Dinaank isn't just a date picker; it's a time traveler's toolkit:

- **🎨 Themes**: Light for sun-chasers, dark for night owls
- **📅 Custom Ranges**: Set the boundaries of your temporal playground
- **🕒 Time Selection**: Choose your moment down to the second
- **🔒 Min/Max Dates**: Create a safe haven in the timestream
- **↔️ Date Ranges**: For those who think in spans, not points
- **⏰ Time Formats**: 12-hour or 24-hour, you decide
- **🎯 Default Values**: Start with your preferred time of day

## 🎭 Configuration Options

```typescript
interface DateSelectorOptions {
  el: string;                    // Target element selector (required) (eg. "#date-selector", ".canvas_of_time", etc.)
  canSelectRange?: boolean;      // Enable range selection
  closeOnSelect?: boolean;       // Close picker after selection
  theme?: 'light' | 'dark';      // Color theme
  colors?: {                     // Custom colors
    hover?: string;
    active?: string;
    range?: string;
    rangeColor?: string;
  }; // eg. { hover: 'rgb(0, 0, 0)', active: '#000', range: 'rgba(91,91,91,0.13)', rangeColor: '#000' }
  enableTimeSelection?: boolean; // Enable time picker (eg. true)
  timeFormat?: '12h' | '24h';   // Time format (eg. '12h' or '24h')
  defaultTime?: {               // Default time values
    hours?: number; // eg. 12
    minutes?: number; // eg. 30
    seconds?: number; // eg. 0
  };
  minDate?: Date;               // Minimum selectable date (eg. new Date())
  maxDate?: Date;               // Maximum selectable date (eg. new Date())
  currentDate?: Date;           // Initial selected date (eg. new Date())
  onChange?: (                  // Selection callback
    selectedDate: Date,
    rangeSelected: { start: Date | null, end: Date | null },
    selectedTime?: { hours: number, minutes: number, seconds: number }
  ) => void; // eg. (selectedDate: Date, rangeSelected: { start: Date | null, end: Date | null }, selectedTime: { hours: number, minutes: number, seconds: number }) => void,
  weekdays?: string[]; // eg. ["Su", "Mo", "Tu", "We", "Th", "Fr", "Sa"]
  months?: string[]; // eg. ["January", "February", "March", "April", "May", "June", "July", "August", "September", "October", "November", "December"]
}
```

## 🎮 Public Methods

Dinaank provides several public methods to control and interact with the date picker programmatically:

### Date & Time Control

```typescript
// Set minimum and maximum selectable dates
datePicker.setMinMaxDate(minDate: Date, maxDate: Date): void;

// Set time values manually
datePicker.setTime(hours: number, minutes: number, seconds: number = 0): void;

// Get the complete selected date and time
datePicker.getDateTime(): Date;

// Change the theme dynamically
datePicker.setTheme(theme: "dark" | "light"): void;

// Clean up resources when no longer needed
datePicker.destroy(): void;
```

### Method Details

#### `setMinMaxDate(minDate: Date, maxDate: Date)`
Sets the minimum and maximum selectable dates in the calendar.
```javascript
// Example: Limit selection to the current month
const now = new Date();
const firstDay = new Date(now.getFullYear(), now.getMonth(), 1);
const lastDay = new Date(now.getFullYear(), now.getMonth() + 1, 0);
datePicker.setMinMaxDate(firstDay, lastDay);
```

#### `setTime(hours: number, minutes: number, seconds: number = 0)`
Programmatically set the time portion of the selected date.
```javascript
// Example: Set time to 2:30 PM
datePicker.setTime(14, 30, 0);
```

#### `getDateTime()`
Returns the complete Date object with both date and time components.
```javascript
// Example: Get the full selected date and time
const selectedDateTime = datePicker.getDateTime();
console.log(selectedDateTime.toLocaleString());
```

#### `setTheme(theme: "dark" | "light")`
Dynamically switch between dark and light themes.
```javascript
// Example: Switch to dark theme
datePicker.setTheme("dark");
```

#### `destroy()`
Clean up the date picker and remove event listeners.
```javascript
// Example: Remove the date picker when no longer needed
datePicker.destroy();
```

## 🎭 The Final Act

Dinaank is more than code; it's poetry in motion, a ballet of bytes. It turns the mundane act of choosing a date and time into a celebration of possibility.

So go forth, temporal artist! Paint your web pages with the brushstrokes of time itself. Let Dinaank be your muse, your stage, and your standing ovation.

## 📜 License

Dinaank is licensed under the MIT License. See the [LICENSE](LICENSE) file for details.

---

<sub>Crafted with ❤️ and a sprinkle of stardust by Harsh Vardhan Goswami. Under the benevolent gaze of the MIT License.</sub>
